When we say that we send an updated schema to schema registry,
we also send along a compatibility setting.
This compatibility setting indicates to schema registry what
downstream consumers can expect when they start to consume new data.
What's great about this, is that as downstream consumers fetch data from Kafka,
the client code will also fetch the updated schema from schema registry.
When scheme registry delivers the schema to the consumer client,
clients can request compatibility information from
schema registry with a simple HTTP request.
If the schema is compatible,
the consumer can simply continue to pull data from Kafka.
If the schema is not compatible,
then the consumer will not pull the data from
Kafka until the consumer code has been updated.
This process can help catch data changes early on,
and prevent expensive outages and missed process data.
It's worth noting that this process is not magic.
When you write producer code,
you are responsible for telling schema registry
what kind of compatibility the change represents.
Additionally, your consumer code needs to
know how to fetch and handle these compatibility changes.
Schema registry supports four categories of compatibility,
backwards, forwards, full compatibility, and none.
We'll review these categories in depth in the next few sections.